.TH MODULETRX.CONF 5 "JANUARI 2018" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleTrx.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink transceiver control module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the transceiver control module.
.P
The transceiver control module is used to remotely control and operate a
transceiver through a SvxLink node. The module is configured by setting up one
or more bands to operate the transceiver on. It is even possible to support
multiple transceivers by having multiple band definitions but with differing RX
and TX configurations. This make it possible to for example support HF, VHF,
UHF etc using the same module.
.P
It is only possible to select the operating frequency through the command
interface but with intelligent band configurations it is possible to select the
modulation and other parameters as well, like listen only bands.
.P
It is also possible to select a band through a shortcut. The configured default
frequency for the band will then be selected. Single frequency channels are
configured by setting up a band that span only one frequency. The channel can
then be selected by either entering a possibly configured shortcut or the
frequency for the channel.
.P
When entering a frequency on the control interface, a band is selected that
match the entered frequency. If there are more than one band that match the
frequency there are some rules for which of the bands to select.
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
If the new frequency falls within a band that is a subband of another band, the
subband is selected. This make it possible to configure regions of a larger
band differently than the whole band, like making parts of a band listen only
or selecting another modulation. It also make it possible to define channels
within the band that have different settings like repeater shift.
.IP \(bu 4
If the new frequency falls within a band that is overlapping with the current
band but that is not a subband of the current band, the band having the lowest
valued shortcut will be selected. If there is no shortcut configured, the band
with the lowest lower frequency limit will be selected.
.IP \(bu 4
If there is a band currently selected and the new band is not a subband, the
transceiver will prefer to stay on the current band. Another band can be
selected explicitly by setting a shortcut on it and first use that shortcut to
switch to the other band.
.IP \(bu 4
If the above rules does not appy it is undefined which band get selected.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration variables that the
SvxLink transceiver control module understands. The configuration file consists
of one global section, that by default is called ModuleTrx, and then there are
one or more band configuration sections. The global configuration variables
will serve as a default for all band configuration sections.
.
.SS ModuleTrx
.
.TP
.B RX
Specify a receiver configration section in the same way that it is done in the
rest of SvxLink. It is even possible to use receivers defined in other SvxLink
configuration files. If a receiver is defined in the ModuleTrx configuration
file it is good practise, but not required, to prefix the configuration section
name with
.BR ModuleTrx: ,
like
.BR [ModuleTrx:Rx1] .
.TP
.B TX
Specify a transmitter configration section in the same way that it is done in
the rest of SvxLink. It is even possible to use transmitters defined in other
SvxLink configuration files. If a transmitter is defined in the ModuleTrx
configuration file it is good practise, but not required, to prefix the
configuration section name with
.BR ModuleTrx: ,
like
.BR [ModuleTrx:Tx1] .
.TP
.B RX_TIMEOUT
Specify a timeout, in seconds, after which the audio is suppressed from the
receiver. The audio will be suppressed until the squelch is closed.
.TP
.B MODULATION
Specify which modulation to use. For a list of valid modulations, have a look
at the documentation for the MODULATION variable in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B SHIFT
Specify the repeater shift (e.g. split transmit frequency) in kHz.
.
.SS Band Configuration Section
.
A band specific configuration section must be named like
[ModuleTrx:Band:BANDNAME], where BANDNAME should be replaced with a unique band
name.
.P
A band specific configuration section may contain the same variables that is
listed above for the ModuleTrx section. Setting the corresponding configuration
variable here will override the global default. A band configuration section
may in addition have the following configuration variables.
.TP
.B FQ
This variable is required and define the lower and upper frequencies for the
band. The frequencies are in kHz and should be given on the form lower-upper.
For a single frequency band (i.e. a channel) it is sufficient to only specify
the first frequency.
.TP
.B FQ_DEFAULT
This is the default frequency in kHz for a band. It is used to set the initial
frequency for a band that is selected through a shortcut. If it is not set, the
lower band limit will be used as the default frequency.
.TP
.B SHORTCUT
Define a shortcut for a band. The shortcut may be any positive number except
0-9 which is reserved for module commands. If the shortcut match a command
entered on the command interface, the band will be selected immediately and the
frequency set by FQ_DEFAULT will be set. If more than one band have the same
shortcut it is undefined which one will get selected.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleTrx.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleTrx.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
