.TH MODULETXFAN.CONF 5 "FEB 2018" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleTxFan.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server
Transmitter Fan module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the TxFan module.
.P
The TxFan module is used to control auxiliary fans that are triggered
by a PTT GPIO event.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink TxFan module understands.
.
.SS ModuleTxFan
.
.TP
.B MODE
The MODE variable has 2 acceptable values "COUNT_DOWN" and "FOLLOW_PTT".
The COUNT_DOWN starts at the value set in DELAY variable, and counts down by 1
every second until zero is reached. At the start of the count down, the FAN_GPIO
pin will be set to logic high.  When the timer reaches zero, the FAN_GPIO will be
set to logic low.  The FOLLOW_PTT mode will Activate the FAN_GPIO pin when PTT is
activated (accurate to 1 second) and will deactivate the FAN_GPIO pin when PTT is
deactivated (accurate to 1 second).
.TP
.B DELAY
Number of seconds to count down after last PTT gpio is deactivated.
.TP
.B PATH_PTT_#
The absolute path to the value file that controls the PTT pin for a given channel.
By default the module supports 2 PTT signals, but can easily be expanded to support
additional channels.  Be certain to include these pins in the svxlink_gpio.conf file.
.TP
.B FAN_GPIO
The absolute path to the value file that controls the FAN gpio pin.  Be certain to
include these pins in the svxlink_gpio.conf file.
.TP 
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleTxFan.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleTxFan.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Dan Loranger (KG7PAR) <support at ICS-CTRL dot com>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
