.TH MODULETCLVOICEMAIL.CONF 5 "APRIL 2021" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleTclVoiceMail.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server
TclVoiceMail module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the TclVoiceMail module.
.P
The TclVoiceMail module implements a simple voice mail system.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
The TclVoiceMail module does not have any module specific configuration
variables. It is configured in another configuration file. Its default location
is /etc/svxlink/TclVoiceMail.conf. The configuration file is also looked for in
directory "$HOME/.svxlink/". The comments in that file should be enough to
understand how to configure the voice mail module. 
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleTclVoiceMail.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleTclVoiceMail.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/TclVoiceMail.conf
System wide configuration file for the TclVoiceMail module.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/TclVoiceMail.conf
Per user configuration file for the TclVoiceMail module.
.TP
.I /var/spool/svxlink/voice_mail
Spool directory for voice mails.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
