.TH MODULESITESTATUS.CONF 5 "FEB 2018" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleSiteStatus.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server
Site status module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the SiteStatus module.
.P
The SiteStatus module is used to monitor auxiliary sensors that are 
triggered by either a GPIO event (digital type sensors) or crossing a threshold
outside the hysteresis (analog type sensors)
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink SiteStatus module understands.
.
.SS ModuleSiteStatus
.
.TP
.B DIGITAL_GPIO_PATH
The absolute path to the digital gpio pins stopping before the actual pin number.
Typically "/sys/class/gpio/gpio" for a raspberry pi, but may vary.
.TP
.B DIGITAL_SENSORS_COUNT
The DIGITAL_SENSORS_COUNT tells the module how many digital type sensors are connected
to the system that are to be monitored.
.TP
.B DIGITAL_#
The sensor number (increments from 0 by 1), value corresponds to the digital gpio pin
number.  Example "DIGITAL_0=496". corresponds to sensor 0, which uses GPIO496 as the
input pin to monitor.
.TP
.B DIGITAL_TYPE_#
The DIGITAL_TYPE_# number (increments from 0 by 1), value corresponds to the type of
sensor being monitored. Currently defined valid entries are:
# DOOR_ACTIVE_HIGH - Announces a door is open (open = true, closed = false)
# DOOR_ACTIVE_LOW - Announces a door is open (open = false, closed = true)
# FUEL_ACTIVE_HIGH - Announces a low fuel sensor is activated (active signal = true) 
# FUEL_ACTIVE_LOW - Announces a low fuel sensor is activated (active signal = false) 
# WATER - Not implemented yet
# FIRE - Not implemented yet
# SOLAR_ACTIVE_HIGH - Announces a Solar Charger state (active signal = true)
# SOLAR_ACTIVE_LOW - Announces a Solar Charger state (active signal = false)
# BATTERY - not implemented yet
as an example:
DIGITAL_TYPE_0=DOOR_ACTIVE_HIGH
means the sensor that is attached to the pin defined by DIGITAL_0 is a door sensor
that when the value toggle from logic low to logic high indicates the door has been
opened.
.TP
.B ANALOG_SENSORS_COUNT
The ANALOG_SENSORS_COUNT tells the module how many analog type sensors are connected
to the system that are to be monitored.
.TP
.B ANALOG_GPIO_PATH
The absolute path to the analog sensor pins stopping before the actual pin number. The 
functional tcl file may need manipulated if the following structure does not reflect
the final location of the raw data values in the system.
/sys/bus/iio/devices/iio:device0/in_voltage<number 0-N>_raw
.TP
.B ANALOG_#
The sensor number (increments from 0 by 1), value corresponds to the analog channel
number. Example "ANALOG_0=0". corresponds to sensor channel 0
.TP
.B ANALOG_TYPE_#
The ANALOG_TYPE_# number (increments from 0 by 1), value corresponds to the type of
sensor being monitored. Currently defined valid entries are:
TEMPERATURE - Placeholder only, user to configure based on scaling factors
BATTERY_VOLTAGE  - Placeholder only, user to configure based on scaling factors
as an example:
# ANALOG_TYPE_0=TEMPERATURE
.TP
.B ANALOG_HYSTERISIS_#
The amount of signal "noise" that should be tolerated before an alarm is triggered.
For example, during development, an open analog pin had noise of +/- 35 counts from 
the mean value.  Setting the ANALOG_HYSTERISIS_#=40 would suppress the alarms from
being triggered every second for in-range/out-of-range....  It is best to understand
the expected behavior of the circuit in the environment before locking down this value
or the hysteresis may be too low or to high causing false alarms or missed alarms.
.TP 
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleSiteStatus.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleSiteStatus.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Dan Loranger (KG7PAR) <support at ICS-CTRL dot com>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
