.TH MODULEDTMFREPEATER.CONF 5 "APRIL 2021" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleDtmfRepeater.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server DTMF
Repeater module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the DTMF Repeater module.
.P
The DTMF Repeater module retransmits all received DTMF digits. This can be used
to control remote systems that is also DTMF controlled. The DTMF muting feature
should be used on a repeater to not retransmit the received DTMF audio.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
The amplitude, tone length and tone spacing of the generated DTMF digits is
configured in the configuration section for the LocalTx that is actually
transmitting the DTMF. Have a look at the documentation for the
.B DTMF_TONE_*
configuration variables for a full explanation.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink DtmfRepeater module understands.
.
.SS ModuleDtmfRepeater
.
.TP
.B REPEAT_DELAY
Specify a time, in milliseconds, that the DTMF Repeater module will wait after
digit reception and squelch close before retransmitting received DTMF digits.
If zero or not specified, SvxLink will try to send the digits as soon as they
are received. 

This variable does not apply when DTMF digits are sent in non-activated mode.
Digits will then be retransmitted as soon as possible.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleDtmfRepeater.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleDtmfRepeater.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
