.TH MODULEPARROT.CONF 5 "APRIL 2021" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleParrot.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server Parrot module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the Parrot module.
.P
The Parrot module record audio as long as the squelch is open and then plays it
back. This can be used as a simplex repeater or for tests. It also plays back
(spelling the digits) the DTMF digits it receives.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink Parrot module understands.
.
.SS ModuleParrot
.
.TP
.B FIFO_LEN
The length, in seconds, of the FIFO (First In First Out) audio buffer where
audio is recorded to. When the squelch has been opened for longer than the time
specified here, the oldest audio in the buffer will be thrown away.
.TP
.B REPEAT_DELAY
Specify a time, in milliseconds, that the parrot module will wait after squelch
close before playing back the recorded message. This is mostly a way to prevent
the parrot module to start sending if the squlech momentarily closes on weak
signals.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleParrot.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleParrot.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
