.TH MODULEPROPAGATIONMONITOR.CONF 5 "DECEMBER 2017" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModulePropagationMonitor.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server
PropagationMonitor module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the PropagationMonitor module.
.P
The PropagationMonitor module is used to announce propagation alerts
received from vhfdx.info or gooddx.net. The process of receiving the emails
is outside of this module and have to be arranged separately. This module
expect to find new emails under the spool directory. Messages from VHFDX 
should be put in a
.I vhfdx
subdirectory and messages from GoodDX should be put in a
.I dxrobot
subdirectory. This module must have write access to the subdirectories under
the spool directory since it will move processed messages to an archive
directory.
.P
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink PropagationMonitor module understands.
.
.SS ModulePropagationMonitor
.
.TP
.B SPOOL_DIR
Specify which directory to read incoming emails from. The default is
.IR /var/spool/svxlink/propagation_monitor .
.
.SH RECEIVING THE ALERT EMAILS
.
The first step in setting up the flow of alert emails is to actually getting
them to the computer running SvxLink and, on that computer, to the user
SvxLink run as. This can be done in two ways. One way is to forward emails
directly via SMTP to the  computer, if you have that possibility. A more
common case propably is that you want to fetch alert emails using POP from
some email account. The latter can be done using the
.BR fetchmail (1)
utility for example.
.P
The next step is to store incoming emails in files under the propagation
monitor spool directory. This is done using the
.BR procmail (1)
utility. When an incoming email is received, the mail server call procmail
which look for a configuration file in the destination users home directory.
For SvxLink, the home directory should be set to
.IR /etc/svxlink .
In that directory a procmail configuration file,
.BR .procmailrc ,
is installed by default. The syntax is a bit cryptic but the file contains
some helpful comments to help you understand it. Have a look at the
.BR procmailrc " (5) and " procmailex (5)
manual pages for more details.
.P
Finally, of course, you need to register with the vhfdx.info and/or gooddx.net
site and set up for what geographic area and which bands you wish to receive
alert emails for.
.
.SH SELINUX
.
Some Linux distributions have the SELinux security framework enabled.
This is true for RedHat based distributions, like Fedora for example.
SELinux will by default deny procmail to write the mail files in the
propagation monitor spool directory. To fix this, run the following commands:
.PP
.RS 4
semanage fcontext \-a \-t user_home_t \\
.RS 0
         "/var/spool/svxlink/propagation_monitor(/.*)?"
.RS 0
restorecon \-r /var/spool/svxlink/propagation_monitor
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModulePropagationMonitor.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModulePropagationMonitor.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I /var/spool/svxlink/propagation_monitor
Spool directory for alert mails. This is the default path. What path is
actually used is determined by the SPOOL_DIR configuration variable.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/.procmailrc
The configuration file for procmail. Procmail is used to write incoming
alert emails into files in the spool directory.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5),
.BR procmail (1),
.BR procmailrc (5),
.BR procmailex (5),
.BR fetchmail (1)

