.TH MODULEECHOLINK.CONF 5 "APRIL 2021" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleEchoLink.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server EchoLink module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the EchoLink module.
.P
The EchoLink module is used to connect to other EchoLink stations.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink EchoLink module understands.
.
.SS ModuleEchoLink
.
.TP
.B ALLOW_IP
Use this variable very carefully. Connections originating from the given subnet
will not be checked against the EchoLink directory server. A typical use of this
is if you want to connect to your own svxlink server and both the server and you
are behind a IP masquerading firewall. 
.TP
.B DROP_ALL_INCOMING
Silently drop all incoming connections.  No message will be sent to the remote
station notifying about the drop. The connection will just be ignored and there
will be no notification in the application log.
.TP
.B DROP_INCOMING
Drop all incoming connections where the remote callsign match this regular
expression. No message will be sent to the remote station notifying about the
drop. The connection will just be ignored.
For more information on the syntax, see the
.B REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
chapter below.
.TP
.B REJECT_INCOMING
Reject all incoming connections where the remote callsign match this regular
expression. A message will be sent to the remote station indicating that the
connection was rejected.
The DROP_INCOMING directive will be evaluated before REJECT_INCOMING.
For more information on the syntax, see the
.B REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
chapter below.
.TP
.B ACCEPT_INCOMING
Only accept incoming connections where the remote callsign match this regular
expression. If the callsign doesn't match, a message will be sent to the
remote station indicating that the connection was rejected.
The DROP_INCOMING and REJECT_INCOMING directives will be evaluated before
ACCEPT_INCOMING.
For more information on the syntax, see the
.B REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
chapter below.
.TP
.B REJECT_OUTGOING
Reject all outgoing connections where the remote callsign match this regular
expression. For more information on the syntax, see the
.B REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
chapter below.
.TP
.B REJECT_CONF
When this is set to 1, reject all incoming connections where the name
of the remote station ends in the word CONF. A message will be sent
to the remote station indicating that the connection was rejected.
This blocks connects from stations that are in conference mode.
When a station enters conference mode after connecting, and transmits
towards us, it will be disconnected as well.
.TP
.B CHECK_NR_CONNECTS
If a station connects to often it can be blocked for a configurable time
span. Example:
CHECK_NR_CONNECTS=3,300,120
If a station connects more than 3 times with less than 300 seconds in between
each connect, that station will be rejected for 120 minutes.
.TP
.B ACCEPT_OUTGOING
Only accept outgoing connections where the remote callsign match this regular
expression. The REJECT_OUTGOING directive will be evaluated before
ACCEPT_OUTGOING. For more information on the syntax, see the
.B REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
chapter below.
.TP
.B SERVERS
A space separated list of IP addresses or names of the EchoLink directory
servers to use. The specified servers will be tried in order until one is
found that works. SvxLink will then stick to that server. If that server fail,
SvxLink will again try the next server in the list and when the end of the list
has been reached, the search start from the beginning again.
Hostnames that resolve to multiple IP addresses, like servers.echolink.org,
will also be correctly handled so that all returned IP addresses will be tried
if necessary.
.TP
.B CALLSIGN
The callsign to use to login to the EchoLink directory server. 
.TP
.B SYSOPNAME
The name of the person or club that is responsible for this system. 
.TP
.B PASSWORD
The EchoLink directory server password to use. 
.TP
.B LOCATION
The location of the station. Note: In the default configuration file the value
of this configuration variable starts with "[Svx]". This is of course not
necessary but it's fun to see which other stations are running SvxLink. 
.TP
.B PROXY_SERVER
If set, connect to the given EchoLink proxy server host. All EchoLink
connections, both incoming and outgoing, will then go through the proxy.
.TP
.B PROXY_PORT
Set the TCP port used for connecing to an EchoLink proxy server. Default is
8100.
.TP
.B PROXY_PASSWORD
Set the EchoLink proxy password used when connecting to an EchoLink proxy
server. Use the password PUBLIC for public proxy servers.
.TP
.B BIND_ADDR
This configuration variable can be set to bind the EchoLink network sockets to
a specific IP-address/interface. This may be needed if the computer is fitted
with more than one ethernet interface and EchoLink should only be used on one
of them.

Example: BIND_ADDR=192.168.0.1
.TP
.B MAX_QSOS
The maximum number of stations that can participate in a conference QSO on this
node. If more stations try to connect, the connect request will be rejected. 
.TP
.B USE_GSM_ONLY
On smaller systems with a less powerful CPU it is a good idea to prevent
SvxLink from switching into the Speex codec when another SvxLink station is
connecting via EchoLink.
If this param is set to 1 SvxLink remains in the default codec (GSM).
.TP
.B DEFAULT_LANG
Set the language to use for announcements sent to remote EchoLink stations.
If not set, it will be the same as the one chosen for the logic core. The
reason for setting this up may be that you want one language for the core
and another language for annoncements sent to remote EchoLink stations.
.TP
.B MAX_CONNECTIONS
When more stations than specified in MAX_QSOS try to connect, a connection will
temporarily be established long enough to play a message telling the remote
station that the connection was rejected. The connection is then immediately
terminated. If the number of connections exceeds MAX_CONNECTIONS, the connect
request is just ignored. This variable is typically set to MAX_QSOS+1 or more if
using a large number for MAX_QSOS. 
.TP
.B LINK_IDLE_TIMEOUT
The number of seconds that a connection is idle before disconnection will occur.
This is to prevent a link to stay open if someone forget to disconnect. Disable
this feature by setting this config variable to zero (or comment it out). 
.TP
.B AUTOCON_ECHOLINK_ID
Set this variable to an EchoLink ID that you want to automatically connect to.
SvxLink will autoconnect only when no other station is connected.
.TP
.B AUTOCON_TIME
Set this to the time in seconds that you want in between autoconnect tries.
.TP
.B DESCRIPTION
A longer description that is sent to remote stations upon connection. This
description should typically include detailed station information like QTH,
transceiver frequency/power, antenna, CTCSS tone frequency etc.
.TP
.B COMMAND_PTY
Specify the path to a PTY that can be used to control the EchoLink module from
the operating system. Commands: "KILL" will disconnect the current talker,
"DISC callsign" will disconnect the station with the given callsign. Commands
can be issued using a simple echo command from the shell.
.TP
.B LOCAL_RGR_SOUND
Set this variable to 0 to disable playing a roger sound (beep) locally when the
remote station stops talking. It's enabled by default.
.TP
.B REMOTE_RGR_SOUND
Set this to 1 to enable sending of a roger sound (beep) to remote Echolink
stations when the squelch closes on the local node. It's disabled by default.
.TP
.B REMOTE_EVENT_HANDLER
The path to the tcl file that handle remote events. The path is normally
figured out from the EVENT_HANDLER set in the logic core confguration so only
set this configuration variable if you have a good reason. The file that should
normally be used to handle remote Echolink events is
events.d/EchoLinkRemote.tcl.
.
.SH REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
.
Regular expressions are used in the DROP, REJECT and ACCEPT configuration
variables. A regular expression can be quite complex and the syntax is
fully described in the
.BR regex (7)
manual page. This is just a quick tutorial for the most important features.
.TP
.B ^
match the beginning of a string.
.TP
.B $
match the end of a string.
.TP
.B .
match one character.
.TP
.B *
match the previous expression zero or more times.
.TP
.B |
match the expression before OR after the |.
.TP
.B \\\\
escape the following character. Note that backslash is also parsed by the
SvxLink configuration parser so a backslash must actually be typed as two.
For example to include a * in the matching pattern it must be escaped as
\\\\*.
.TP
.B ()
grouping an expression.
.TP
.B []
match any of the characters inside of the brackets.
.P
Some examples:
.TP
.B ^(AB1CDE|BA5CBA-L)$
Match AB1CDE or BA5CBA-L.
.TP
.B ^(AB1CDE-[LR])$
Match AB1CDE-L or AB1CDR-R.
.TP
.B ^(AB1.*)$
Match all callsigns starting with AB1.
.TP
.B ^(\\\\\\\\*.*\\\\\\\\*)$
Match all conference "callsigns". We need to escape the star character since
it would otherwise be parsed by the regular expression parser. We also need
two backslah characters so that the SvxLink configuration reader doesn't
parse it as an escape sequence.
.P
The matches in SvxLink are case insensitive so "sm3" and "SM3" are the same.
SvxLink use extended regular expressions (see
.BR regex (7)
). You almost always want to start the regular expression with "^(" and end
it with ")$" so that the whole callsign will be used in the match.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleEchoLink.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleEchoLink.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
