.TH MODULEFRN.CONF 5 "DECEMBER 2017" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
ModuleFrn.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink server
Free Radio Network (FRN) module
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. This man-page
describe the SvxLink server configuration for the FRN module.
.P
The FRN module is used to connect to Free Radio Network (FRN) servers.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
There are a couple of configuration variables that are common to all modules.
The documentation for these can be found in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
Here is the description of all module specific configuration
variables that the SvxLink FRN module understands.
.
.SS ModuleFrn
.
.TP
.B SERVER
Free Radio Network (FRN) server hostname or ip address, you can find a list 
of active servers using FRN desktop application or at 
http://freeradionetwork.eu web page.
.TP
.B PORT
FRN server port number
.TP
.B SERVER_BACKUP
Free Radio Network (FRN) backup server hostname or ip address. When connectivity
to main SERVER is not possible connection will fallback to this server.
.TP
.B PORT_BACKUP
FRN backup server port number
.
.TP 
.B VERSION
Identify itself as a FRN client with this version.
.TP
.B EMAIL_ADDRESS
Your email address, which was used during registration.
.TP
.B DYN_PASSWORD
Password provided to you by FRN on registration.
.TP
.B CLIENT_TYPE
Type of the client:
.br
0 - crosslink
.br
1 - gateway
.br
2 - pc only

Read more at http://freeradionetwork.eu/frnprotocol.htm web page.
.TP
.B CALLSIGN_AND_USER
Your callsign and user name used during registration, for example "1234, Bob".
.TP
.B BAND_AND_CHANNEL
In case of PC only user, this is 'PC Only'.
In case of a crosslink this is 'Crosslink'.
In case of a gateway this is the frequancy in full Mhz and kHz separated by a
 '.' (dot), followed by the mode 'FM', 'AM' or 'DIG', followed by a space and
the squelch type 'CTC', 'DSC' or 'NONE' followed by the CTC frequency or ID 
code.

Examples:
.br
446.03125FM CTC131.8
.br
28.12500AM
.br
145.43750FM DCS828
.br
446.02625DIG CID123
.TP
.B DESCRIPTION
Custom extra information about the node.
.TP
.B COUNTRY
Full name of the country.
.TP
.B CITY_CITY_PART
The city and the part of the city, or the part of the country and the city 
divided by a minus sign, for example "City \- Street".
.TP
.B NET
Network (room) where to connect, each server holds up to 32 networks (rooms).
.TP
.B FRN_DEBUG
Define to enable extensive module logging, including FRN request and response
printout.
.TP
.B DISABLE_RF
Define to disable sending voice from FRN to RIG. Nothing will be transmitted 
by radio (could be switched ON by DTMF command later if needed)
.
.SH FRN NEW USER REGISTRATION
To register at FRN service it is possible to use native desktop client or just
register using netcat:

echo 'IG:\\
.br
<ON>[CallsignAndUser]</ON>\\
.br
<EA>[EMailAddress]</EA>\\
.br
<BC>[BandAndChannel]</BC>\\
.br
<DS>[Description]</DS>\\
.br
<NN>[Country]</NN>\\
.br
<CT>[CityCityPart]</CT>' | nc -v sysman.freeradionetwork.eu 10025

FRN System Manager should return OK in case of successful registration.

More information about new user registration is available at 
http://freeradionetwork.eu/frnprotocol.htm
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleFrn.conf
Global modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.TP
.I ~/.svxlink/svxlink.d/ModuleFrn.conf
Per user modularized configuration file. Depends on the CFG_DIR configuration
variable setting.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
