.TH REMOTETRX 1 "FEBRUARY 2025" Linux "User Manuals"
.
.SH NAME
.
remotetrx \- The SvxLink remote transceiver application
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.BI "remotetrx [--help] [--daemon] [--quiet] [--reset] [--version] [--logfile=" "log file" "] [--config=" "configuration file" "] [--pidfile=" "pid file" "] [--runasuser=" "user name" ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B remotetrx
is the SvxLink remote transceiver application. It is used to connect to a
receiver and/or transmitter and then the main SvxLink server can connect to the
remote transceiver server via TCP/IP to get audio to/from it.
.P
It is also possible to link via RF instead of via TCP/IP. An example use of the
latter would be if the repeater is placed in a remote location where there is
no network. Then networked remote receivers can be linked up to the repeater
via RF from a link site where network is available.
.P
The setup is pretty straight forward. The setup of a receiver or transmitter is
done in the same way as in the SvxLink server so use the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page as a reference for that. The remotetrx specific configuration is
described in the
.BR remotetrx.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
On the SvxLink server side you need to configure a networked
receiver/transmitter. That is described in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page in the Networked Receiver/Transmitter Section. If using multiple
receivers you also want to configure a voter and make proper calibration of the
signal level detector on each receiver.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B --help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.B --daemon
Start the SvxLink remote receiver server as a daemon.
.TP
.BI "--runasuser" "username"
Start RemoteTrx as the specified user. The switch to the new user
will happen after the log and pid files has been opened.
.TP
.BI "--logfile=" "log file"
Specify a log file to put all output into. Both stdout and stderr will be
redirected to the log file.
.TP
.BI "--pidfile=" "pid file"
Specify a pid file to write the process ID into.
.TP
.BI "--config=" "configuration file"
Specify which configuration file to use.
.TP
.B --reset
Do a normal application startup, initializing everything, but exit immediately
when the initialization is done.
.TP
.B --quiet
Don't output any info messages, just warnings and errors.
.TP
.B --version
Print the application version then exit.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/remotetrx.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/remotetrx.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR remotetrx.conf (5)
for further details.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/remotetrx.conf
Per user configuration file. See
.BR remotetrx.conf (5)
for further details.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/remotetrx.d/*
Additional configuration files. This directory is setup by the CFG_DIR
configuration variable.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_NOTRIGGER
Set this environment variable to 1 if you get an error about
.B ioctl: Broken pipe
during remotetrx server startup when using OSS audio.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_ALSA_ZEROFILL
Set this environment variable to 0 to stop the Alsa audio code from writing
zeros to the audio device when there is no audio to write available.
ASYNC_AUDIO_UDP_ZEROFILL
Set this environment variable to 1 to enable the UDP audio code to write zeros
to the UDP connection when there is no audio to write available.
.TP
HOME
Used to find the per user configuration file.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink (1),
.BR remotetrx.conf (5),
.BR svxlink.conf (5),
.BR siglevdetcal (1)
