.TH REMOTETRX.CONF 5 "JANUARI 2018" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
remotetrx.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink remote transceiver server
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B remotetrx
is the SvxLink remote transceiver server. This man-page describe the
configuration file format for it.
.P
The RemoteTrx application can handle more than one transceiver at a time. You
may for example want to handle both a 2m and a 70cm receiver on a site. One
sound card is sufficient for doing this since the left channel can be used for
one receiver and the right channel can be used for the other receiver.
The GLOBAL/TRXS configuration variable is used to tell the RemoteTrx
application which transceivers to set up. Each transceiver have an uplink that
is used to interface to the main SvxLink server. The most common type is the net
uplink which link to the main SvxLink server over the Internet using TCP/IP.
It is also possible to have an uplink via RF but the functionality is then
limited.
.P
The term "uplink" might be a bit confusing for some people. In this case it does
not refer to any specific direction in which the data or audio is flowing. It's
just the name for the link up to the main SvxLink server.
.P
RemoteTrx look for configuration files in a number of places. First it tries to
find a user specific configuration file. It will look for a user specific
configuration file in two places:
.BR $HOME/.svxlink/remotetrx.conf .
If no user specific configuration file can be found, remotetrx will look
for the system wide configuration file
.BR /etc/svxlink/remotetrx.conf .
The
.B --config
command line option may also be used to specify an arbitrary configuration file.
.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.
The configuration file is in the famous INI-file format. A generic example of
how such a file might look like is shown below.

  [SECTION1]
  VALUE1=1
  VALUE2="TWO "
  VAULE3="Multi "
         "line"
  
  [SECTION2]
  VALUE1=2

This is a simple format that contain name=value pairs that belong to a section.
In written text, a specific configuration variable can be referred to as
SECTION1/VALUE2 meaning "configuration variable VALUE2 in section SECTION1".
.P
The same variable name can exist in two different sections. For example VALUE1
in section SECTION1 have the value 1 and VALUE1 in section SECTION2 have the
value 2. Values containing spaces at the beginning or end of the line must be
surrounded by citation characters (see SECTION1/VALUE2). Likewise with a multi
line value (see SECTION1/VALUE3).
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
Here is the description of all configuration variables that remotetrx
understands. The configuration variables are described section for section.
.
.SS GLOBAL
.
The GLOBAL section contains application global configuration data.
.TP
.B TRXS
This configuration variable specify a comma separated list of transceiver
configuration sections.
.TP
.B CFG_DIR
Specify the path to a directory that contain additional configuration files.
If a relative path is specified, the path will be relative to the directory
where the main configuration file is at. All files in the specified directory
will be read as additional configuration. Filenames starting with a dot are
ignored.
.TP
.B TIMESTAMP_FORMAT
This variable specifies the format of the timestamp that is written in front of
each row in the log file. The format string is in the same format as specified
in the
.BR strftime (3)
manual page. The default is "%c" which is described as: "the preferred date and
time representation for the current locale". The environment variables LC_TIME,
LC_ALL and LANG will affect how this time format will look. For example, setting
LC_TIME="sv_SE.UTF8" will give you swedish timestamp representation. Other
examples of format specifiers are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %d " - The day of the month as a decimal number (range 01 to 31)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %b " - The abbreviated month name according to the current locale"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %Y " - The year as a decimal number including the century"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %H " - The hour as a decimal number using a 24-hour clock (range 00 to 23)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %M " - The minute as a decimal number (range 00 to 59)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %S " - The second as a decimal number (range 00 to 61)"
.P
So, TIMESTAMP_FORMAT="%d %b %Y %H:%M:%S" would give a timestamp looking something like:
"29 Nov 2005 22:31:59".
.RE
.TP
.B CARD_SAMPLE_RATE
This configuration variable determines the sampling rate used for audio
input/output. SvxLink always work with a sampling rate of 16kHz internally but
there still are som benefits from using a higher sampling rate. On some sound
cards the filters look pretty bad at 16kHz and the amplitude response will not
be uniform which among other things can cause problems for the software DTMF
decoder.

Some sound cards also sound very bad at 16kHz due to insufficient
anti-alias filtering or resampling effects. These, often cheeper, sound cards
sound OK at 48kHz.

The downside of choosing a higher sampling rate is that it puts a little bit
more load on the CPU so if you have a very slow machine (<300MHz), it might not
have the computational power to handle it.

Supported sampling rates are: 16000 and 48000.
.TP
.B CARD_CHANNELS
Use this configuration variable to specify how many channels to use when
opening a sound card. For normal sound cards the only practical values to use
are 1 for mono and 2 for stereo. The latter is the default.

When using the sound card in stereo mode it is possible to use the left and
right channels independenly to drive two transceivers. When using the sound
card in mono mode, both left and right channels transmit/receive the same
audio.
.
.SS Network uplink transceiver section
.
The network uplink transceiver section is used to specify the configuration for a
network link to the main SvxLink server. In the default configuration file there
is a network uplink transceiver section called
.BR NetUpLinkTrx .
.TP
.B TYPE
Always "Net" for a network uplink transceiver configuration section.
.TP
.B RX
Point out the receiver configuration section to use. Set to NONE if no RX is
used. A receiver is configured in the exact same way as in the SvxLink server.
Have a look at
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
for more information on how to configure a receiver.
.TP
.B TX
Point out the transmitter configuration section to use. Set to NONE if no TX is
used. A transmitter is configured in the exact same way as in the SvxLink
server. Have a look at
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
for more information on how to configure a transmitter.
.TP
.B LISTEN_PORT
The TCP port to listen on. Make sure to choose a unique port for each
network uplink transceiver configuration. The default is 5210.
.TP
.B AUTH_KEY
This is the authentication key (password) to use to athenticate incoming
connections. The same key have to be specified in the client configuration.
If no key is specified, all logins will be unauthenticated. A good
authentication key should be 20 characters long.
The key will never be transmitted over the network. A HMAC-SHA1
challenge-response procedure will be used for authentication.
.TP
.B MUTE_TX_ON_RX
If set to a value >= 0, will stop the transmitter from transmitting when the
squelch is open. The value represents a delay, in milliseconds, after the
squelch has closed, that the transmitter will be muted. For example, if set
to 1000, the transmitter will be muted one second after the squelch has closed.
The default is not to mute the transmitter when the squelch is open.
.TP
.B FALLBACK_REPEATER
This function is useful if running RemoteTrx as both RX and TX for a repeater.
If the connection to the SvxLink base station is lost due to network errors, the
RemoteTrx provides a very basic repeater function (SQLELCH controlled) until the
the connection has been established again. Set to 1 to enable this function
or set to 0 to disable it. Default is 0.
.
.SS RF uplink transceiver section
.
The RF uplink transceiver configuration section is used to specify the
configuration for an RF link to the main SvxLink server.  It can for example be
used to link remote receivers coming in on the Internet to a site that do not
have access to the Internet.  In the default configuration file there is an RF
uplink transceiver section called
.BR RfUpLinkTrx .
The section name could be anything. It should match what is specified in the
TRXS configuration variable in the GLOBAL section.
.TP
.B TYPE
Always "RF" for an RF uplink transceiver configuration section.
.TP
.B RX
Point out the receiver configuration section to use. Set to NONE if no RX is
used. A receiver is configured in the exact same way as in the SvxLink server.
Have a look at
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
for more information on how to configure a receiver.
.TP
.B TX
Point out the transmitter configuration section to use. Set to NONE if no TX is
used. A transmitter is configured in the exact same way as in the SvxLink
server. Have a look at
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
for more information on how to configure a transmitter.
.TP
.B UPLINK_TX
Point out the uplink transmitter configuration section to use. The configuration
for an uplink transmitter looks exactly the same as for any other transmitter.
In the default configuration file there is an uplink transmitter configuration
section called
.BR UplinkTx .
If there is no uplink transmitter, specify NONE.
.TP
.B UPLINK_RX
Point out the uplink receiver configuration section to use. The configuration
for an uplink receiver looks exactly the same as for any other receiver.
In the default configuration file there is an uplink receiver configuration
section called
.BR UplinkRx .
If there is no uplink receiver, specify NONE.
.TP
.B MUTE_UPLINK_RX_ON_TX
Specify if the link receiver should be muted or not when the link transmitter is
transmitting. Set it to 0 if a full duplex link is desired. Default is 1.
.TP
.B LOOP_RX_TO_TX
Set to 1 to loop incoming RX audio (not link RX) directly to the TX (not link
TX). You figure out when to use it. Default is 0.
.TP
.B DETECT_1750
Set up the receiver(s) specified in the RX configuration variable to detect a
1750Hz tone burst. The detection will be relayed on the uplink transmitter if
the setup have the capability to do so. Set this configuration variable to the
number of milliseconds that the 1750Hz tone must be present before reporting
it. Detection is disabled by default.
.TP
.B DETECT_CTCSS
Set up the receiver(s) specified in the RX configuration variable to detect the
given CTCSS tone. The detection will be relayed on the uplink transmitter if
the setup have the capability to do so. Set this configuration variable to
tone_fq:tone_duration, where tone_fq is the CTCSS tone frequency and
tone_duration is the number of milliseconds that the CTCSS tone must be present
before reporting it. Detection is disabled by default.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/remotetrx.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/remotetrx.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/remotetrx.conf
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/remotetrx.d/*
Additional configuration files.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink (1),
.BR svxlink.conf (1),
.BR remotetrx (1),
.BR siglevdetcal (1)
