.TH REMOTERX.CONF 5 "NOVEMBER 2006" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
remoterx.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxLink remote receiver server
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B remoterx
is the SvxLink remote receiver server. This man-page describe the configuration
file format for it.
.P
Remoterx look for configuration files in a number of places. First it try to
find a user specific configuration file. It will look for a user specific
configuration file in two places:
.BR $HOME/.svxlink/remoterx.conf " or " $HOME/.remoterxrc .
Use the one that will best fit your need. If no user specific configuration file
can be found, remoterx will look for the system wide configuration file
.BR /etc/remoterx.conf .
The
.B --config
command line option may also be used to specify an arbitrary configuration file.
.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.
The configuration file is in the famous INI-file format. A generic example of
how such a file might look like is shown below.

  [SECTION1]
  VALUE1=1
  VALUE2="TWO "
  VAULE3="Multi "
         "line"
  
  [SECTION2]
  VALUE1=2

This is a simple format that contain name=value pairs that belong to a section.
In written text, a specific configuration variable can be referred to as
SECTION1/VALUE2 meaning "configuration variable VALUE2 in section SECTION1".
.P
The same variable name can exist in two different sections. For example VALUE1
in section SECTION1 have the value 1 and VALUE1 in section SECTION2 have the
value 2. Values containing spaces at the beginning or end of the line must be
surrounded by citation characters (see SECTION1/VALUE2). Likewise with a multi
line value (see SECTION1/VALUE3).
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
Here is the description of all configuration variables that remoterx
understands. The configuration variables are described section for section.
.
.SS GLOBAL
.
The GLOBAL section contains application global configuration data.
.TP
.B RX
Point out the receiver configuration section to use.
.TP
.B UPLINK
Point out the uplink configuration section to use. The uplink section specify
how this remote receiver should be linked to the main SvxLink server.
.TP
.B CFG_DIR
Specify the path to a directory that contain additional configuration files.
If a relative path is specified, the path will be relative to the directory
where the main configuration file is at. All files in the specified directory
will be read as additional configuration. Filenames starting with a dot are
ignored.
.TP
.B TIMESTAMP_FORMAT
This variable specifies the format of the timestamp that is written in front of
each row in the log file. The format string is in the same format as specified
in the
.BR strftime (3)
manual page. The default is "%c" which is described as: "the preferred date and
time representation for the current locale". The environment variables LC_TIME,
LC_ALL and LANG will affect how this time format will look. For example, setting
LC_TIME="sv_SE.UTF8" will give you swedish timestamp representation. Other
examples of format specifiers are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %d " - The day of the month as a decimal number (range 01 to 31)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %b " - The abbreviated month name according to the current locale"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %Y " - The year as a decimal number including the century"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %H " - The hour as a decimal number using a 24-hour clock (range 00 to 23)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %M " - The minute as a decimal number (range 00 to 59)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %S " - The second as a decimal number (range 00 to 61)"
.P
So, TIMESTAMP_FORMAT="%d %b %Y %H:%M:%S" would give a timestamp looking something like:
"29 Nov 2005 22:31:59".
.
.SS Network uplink section
.
The network uplink section is used to specify the configuration for a network
link to the main SvxLink server. In the default configuration file there is a
network uplink section called
.BR NetUpLink .
The configuration is quite boring at the moment since there is only one
configuration variable and that variable can only have one value.
.TP
.B TYPE
Always "Net" for a networked uplink.
.
.SS Local Receiver Section
.
A local receiver section is used to specify the configuration for a receiver
connected to the sound card. In the default configuration file there is a Local
configuration section called
.BR Rx1 .
The section name could be anything. It should match the RX configuration
variable in the GLOBAL section where the receiver is to be used. The available
configuration variables are the same as for a SvxLink server local receiver so
use the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page as a reference.
.
.SS Voter Section
.
Receiver type "Voter" is a "receiver" that combines multiple receivers and
selects one of them to take audio from when the squelch opens. Which receiver to
use is selected directly after squelch open. Another selection is not done until
the selected receivers squelch is closed and another receivers squelch is
opened. In the default configuration file there is a voter section called
.BR Voter .
.P
The usage of a voter on a remote receiver is not very common but it is possible.
More common is to have one voter at the main SvxLink site that manage all
receivers. The available configuration variables are the same as for a SvxLink
server voter so use the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page as a reference.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.I /etc/remoterx.conf
The system wide configuration file.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/remoterx.conf " or " ~/.remoterxrc
Per user configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/remoterx.d/*
Additional configuration files.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink (1),
.BR svxlink.conf (1),
.BR remoterx (1)
