.TH REMOTERX 1 "NOVEMBER 2006" Linux "User Manuals"
.
.SH NAME
.
remoterx \- The SvxLink remote receiver application
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.BI "remoterx [--help] [--daemon] [--logfile=" "log file" "] [--config=" "configuration file" ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B remoterx
is the SvxLink remote receiver application. It is used to connect to a receiver
and then the main SvxLink server can connect to the remote receiver server via
TCP/IP to get audio from it.
.P
The setup is pretty straight forward. The setup of a receiver is done in the
same way as in the SvxLink server so use the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page as a reference for that. The remoterx specific configuration is
described in the
.BR remoterx.conf (5)
manual page.
.P
On the SvxLink server side you need to configure a networked receiver. That is
described in the
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
manual page. If using multiple receivers you also want to configure a voter and
make proper calibration of the signal level detector on each receiver.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B --help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.B --daemon
Start the SvxLink remote receiver server as a daemon.
.TP
.BI "--logfile=" "log file"
Specify a log file to put all output into. Both stdout and stderr will be
redirected to the log file.
.TP
.BI "--config=" "configuration file"
Specify which configuration file to use.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.I /etc/remoterx.conf
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR remoterx.conf (5)
for further details.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/remoterx.conf " or " ~/.remoterxrc
Per user configuration file. See
.BR remoterx.conf (5)
for further details.
.TP
.I /etc/remoterx.d/*
Additional configuration files. This directory is setup by the CFG_DIR
configuration variable.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_NOTRIGGER
Set this environment variable to 1 if you get an error about
.B ioctl: Broken pipe
when the remoterx server starts.
.TP
HOME
Used to find the per user configuration file.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
SvxLink Devel <svxlink-devel at lists dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink (1),
.BR remoterx.conf (5),
.BR svxlink.conf (5)

