.TH SIGLEVDETCAL 1 "MAY 2025" Linux "User Manuals"
.
.SH NAME
.
siglevdetcal \- The SvxLink signal level detector calibration utility
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.BI "siglevdetcal <" "configuration file" "> <" "RX config section name" >
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B siglevdetcal
is the SvxLink signal level detector calibration utility. It is used to assist
in the setup of the SIGLEV_SLOPE and SIGLEV_OFFSET configuration variables for a
local receiver. The signal level detector need to be calibrated if a voter or
the SIGLEV squelch detector is going to be used.
.P
The siglevdetcal utility will also measure the CTCSS tone SNR offset so that
the CTCSS_SNR_OFFSETS configuration variable can be set up to a proper value.
.P
The calibration procedure is quite simple and everything is more or less
explained at run-time. The procedure is outlined below.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Disconnect the antenna and the PTT cable. The PTT might be triggered by the
siglevdetcal utility. If you want to be really sure that no harm come to your
transceiver, connect a dummy load.
.IP \(bu 2
Setup the audio input level. The audio input level must not be changed after the
calibration has been done.
.IP \(bu 2
Start the siglevdetcal utility.
.IP \(bu 2
Transmit on another radio so that the receiver under calibration will receive
full signal strength.
.IP \(bu 2
Still holding the PTT, press ENTER and wait until the squelch open level
measurements have been done.
.IP \(bu 2
Release the PTT. Make sure the squelch is open so that only noise is received.
.IP \(bu 2
Press ENTER to start the squelch close level measurements.
.IP \(bu 2
When finished, the two config variables SIGLEV_SLOPE and SIGLEV_OFFSET are
printed. Put these in your configuration file under the corresponding receiver
configuration section.
.IP \(bu 2
Start the SvxLink server and verify that full signal strength is showed as about
100 and open squelch is showed as about 0. If full signal strength is not
showed, you might have to setup SQL_DELAY to delay the signal level measurement
until the signal is stable.
.RE
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_NOTRIGGER
Set this environment variable to 1 if you get an error about
.B ioctl: Broken pipe
when the remotetrx server starts.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_ALSA_ZEROFILL
Set this environment variable to 0 to stop the Alsa audio code from writing
zeros to the audio device when there is no audio to write available.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_UDP_ZEROFILL
Set this environment variable to 1 to enable the UDP audio code to write zeros
to the UDP connection when there is no audio to write available.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink (1),
.BR remotetrx (1),
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
