.TH SVXLINK 1 "MAY 2025" Linux "User Manuals"
.
.SH NAME
.
svxlink \- A general purpose voice services system for ham radio use
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.BI "svxlink [--help] [--daemon] [--quiet] [--reset] [--version] [--logfile=" "log file" "] [--config=" "configuration file" "] [--pidfile=" "pid file" "] [--runasuser=" "user name" ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxlink
is a general purpose voice service system for ham radio use. The 
SvxLink project contains multiple applications and this man-page
describe the SvxLink server.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.B --help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.B --daemon
Start the SvxLink server as a daemon.
.TP
.BI "--runasuser=" "username"
Start the SvxLink server as the specified user. The switch to the new user
will happen after the log and pid files has been opened.
.TP
.BI "--logfile=" "log file"
Specify a log file to put all output into. Both stdout and stderr will be redirected to
the log file.
.TP
.BI "--pidfile=" "pid file"
Specify a pid file to write the process ID into.
.TP
.BI "--config=" "configuration file"
Specify which configuration file to use.
.TP
.B --reset
Do a normal application startup, initializing everything, but exit immediately
when the initialization is done.
.TP
.B --quiet
Don't output any info messages, just warnings and errors.
.TP
.B --version
Print the application version then exit.
.
.SH REFLECTOR SERVER CONNECTION
.
The SvxReflector server is an application that provide a hub for multiple
SvxLink nodes to connect to for performing audio streaming between the nodes.

The SvxReflector system features separation of audio streams in talkgroups so
that multiple QSOs can be routed through the reflector server without
interfering with each other.

Authentication to the reflector server is done using X.509 certificates. It is
a complex technology but most details are hidden for a SvxLink node sysop.
However, the node sysop need to know a few things for smooth operations of the
node.

When a SvxLink node connect to the reflector server for the first time, it will
request a signed certificate. Signing a certificate is a manual process on the
SvxReflector side so it may take a while for the reflector sysop to perform the
signing. The node will not be able to connect to the reflector until the
certificate has been signed but it will retry continuously. When the reflector
sysop has signed the certificate it will be sent to the node when it connects
the next time. After that the node is granted access to the reflector.

A certificate has a limited lifetime. In SvxLink that is fixed to three months.
When there is one third left of the lifetime a new certificate will be signed
automatically by the reflector server. No manual interaction is needed by the
node sysop nor the reflector sysop. However, if the certificate pass its end of
life a new manual signing process is needed.

During the certificate creation process there are a number of important files
generated. Ensure that you back up these files. For example, you will at least
need to restore the key-file after reinstalling the node OS. See FILES below
for more information about these files.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxlink.conf " (or deprecated " /etc/svxlink.conf ")"
The system wide configuration file. See
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
for further details.
.TP
.IR ~/.svxlink/svxlink.conf
Per user configuration file. See
.BR svxlink.conf (5)
for further details.
.TP
.I /etc/svxlink/svxlink.d/*
Additional configuration files. Typically one configuration file per module.
.TP
.I /var/lib/svxlink/pki/MYCALL.key
Key file used for authenticating to a SvxReflector server. Make sure that you
don't loose this file since you then will not be able to log in to the
reflector server. This file must also be kept secret since anyone possessing it
can log in to the reflector server in the name of the key owner.
.TP
.I /var/lib/svxlink/pki/MYCALL.csr
File containing the certificate signing request for the SvxReflector
authentication certificate. This file is auto generated if missing and updated
if SvxLink certificate configuration has changed. It can be used to sign a
certificate "out-of-band" if the reflector server owner has such a procedure.
Otherwise it's just used internally by SvxLink.
.TP
.I /var/lib/svxlink/pki/MYCALL.crt
File containing the certificate used to authenticate to the SvxReflector
server. It's good to back this file up as well but if it's lost, the reflector
server _may_ be able to send it to the SvxLink node upon connect.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_NOTRIGGER
Set this environment variable to 1 if you get an error about
.B ioctl: Broken pipe
during startup of the SvxLink server when using OSS audio.
.TP
ASYNC_AUDIO_ALSA_ZEROFILL
Set this environment variable to 0 to stop the Alsa audio code from writing
zeros to the audio device when there is no audio to write available.
ASYNC_AUDIO_UDP_ZEROFILL
Set this environment variable to 1 to enable the UDP audio code to write zeros
to the UDP connection when there is no audio to write available.
.TP
HOME
Used to find the per user configuration file.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at svxlink dot org>
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.
Bugs should be reported using the issue tracker at
https://github.com/sm0svx/svxlink.

Questions about SvxLink should not be asked using the issue tracker. Instead
use the group set up for this purpose at groups.io:
https://groups.io/g/svxlink
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink.conf (5),
.BR remotetrx (1)
