.TH SVXSERVER.CONF 5 "JANUARI 2017" Linux "File Formats"
.
.SH NAME
.
svxserver.conf \- Configuration file for the SvxServer (reflector)
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B svxserver
is reflector for connecting different SvxLink nodes together.
.P
SvxServer look for configuration files in a number of places. First it try to
find a user specific configuration file. SvxLink will look for a user specific
configuration file in:
.BR $HOME/.svxlink/svxserver.conf .
If no user specific configuration file can be found, SvxServer will look for
the system wide configuration file
.BR /etc/svxlink/svxserver.conf .
The
.B --config
command line option may also be used to specify an arbitrary configuration file.
.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.
The configuration file is in the famous INI-file format. A generic example of how such a
file might look like is shown below.

  [SECTION1]
  VALUE1=1
  VALUE2="TWO "
  VAULE3="Multi "
         "line"
  
  [SECTION2]
  VALUE1=2

This is a simple format that contain name=value pairs that belong to a section. In written
text, a specific configuration variable can be referred to as SECTION1/VALUE2 meaning
"configuration variable VALUE2 in section SECTION1".
.P
The same variable name can exist in two different sections. For example VALUE1 in section
SECTION1 have the value 1 and VALUE1 in section SECTION2 have the value 2. Values
containing spaces at the beginning or end of the line must be surrounded by citation
characters (see SECTION1/VALUE2). Likewise with a multi line value (see SECTION1/VALUE3).
.
.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.
Here is the description of all configuration variables that SvxServer understands. The
configuration variables are described section for section.
.
.SS GLOBAL
.
The GLOBAL section contains application global configuration data.
.TP
.B LISTEN_PORT
Specify the tcp port where the SvxServer is listen on. Leaving this variable 
unset will set the default tcp port 5210.
.TP
.B AUTH_KEY
This is the authentication key (password) to use for the connection between
SvxLink and the SvxServer. The same key must be configured on the SvxLink node
that want to be connected to the SvxServer.
If no key is specified in the config, the login will be
unauthenticated. A good authentication key should be 20 characters long.
The key will never be transmitted over the network.
If the same SvxLink is used for both Net-RX and Net-TX, the same key must be
specified in the RX as well as in the TX configuration section. A HMAC-SHA1
challenge-response procedure will be used for authentication.
.TP
.B SQL_TIMEOUT
Define the maximum time in seconds for a squelch to be allowed in OPEN state
before the sql is detected as "hanging". This node will be blocked until 
it is reconnected.
A goot value would be about 300 seconds (5 minutes).
.TP
.B TIMESTAMP_FORMAT
This variable specifies the format of the timestamp that is written in front of
each row in the log file. The format string is in the same format as specified
in the
.BR strftime (3)
manual page. The default is "%c" which is described as: "the preferred date and
time representation for the current locale". The environment variables LC_TIME,
LC_ALL and LANG will affect how this time format will look. For example, setting
LC_TIME="sv_SE.UTF8" will give you swedish timestamp representation. Other
examples of format specifiers are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %d " - The day of the month as a decimal number (range 01 to 31)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %b " - The abbreviated month name according to the current locale"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %Y " - The year as a decimal number including the century"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %H " - The hour as a decimal number using a 24-hour clock (range 00 to 23)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %M " - The minute as a decimal number (range 00 to 59)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %S " - The second as a decimal number (range 00 to 61)"
.IP \(bu 4
.BR %f " - Fractional seconds in millisecond resolution (000-999)"
.P
The last one (%f) is a SvxLink specific formatting specifier.

Example: TIMESTAMP_FORMAT="%d %b %Y %H:%M:%S.%f" would give a timestamp looking
something like: "29 Nov 2005 22:31:59.875".
.RE
.TP
.B HEARTBEAT_TIMEOUT
Define the time in seconds for the interval that the SvxServer expects a response from 
a connected client. If the response fail the connection will classified as lost.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.IR /etc/svxlink/svxserver.conf 
The system wide configuration file.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Tobias Blomberg (SM0SVX) <sm0svx at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.
.BR svxlink (1),
.BR remotetrx (1),
.BR siglevdetcal (1),
.BR devcal (1)
